At long last, we finally got all this information fetching stuff complete so we can focus back on creating
that header component that's going to be common to all of our different pages.
To get started, I'm going to find the client directory and there I'm going to make a new folder called
Components.
So instead of here, we're going to place all the different reusable components we might need inside
of our app.
Inside there all then make a header js file.
Okay.
So inside of here, we really want a pretty basic header, pretty much what we saw back inside of our
mock ups.
So it's just going to be something that shows a label on the left hand side or a logo of sorts.
I imagine calling this application genetics kind of a little pun.
I suppose you can call it whatever you want.
Not really big difference.
We just need to make sure that the links on the right hand side are going to change depending upon whether
or not the user is signed in.
So that means that we're going to have to create this component and expect that it's going to receive
a prop of whoever the current user is.
Okay.
So inside of here, Edward James, I'm going to do an export default and I'm going to expect that this
thing is going to receive a prop called current user.
So if current user is equal to an object, that means we must be signed in and we want to show a link
that will allow the user to sign out.
If current user is equal to null, that means we need to show links that will allow user to actually
sign in or go to the sign in or sign up page.
All right.
So right now, let's just focus on showing some content to the user.
So I'm going to place a nav inside of here.
I'm going to give it a class name of nav bar.
Nap bar, dash light and BG light.
Then inside of here, I'm going to want to show an anchor element on the left hand side.
So this get tix thing that should actually be a link that the user can click to.
Go back to our main landing page in order to display a link with next JS.
We do not just put in a normal anchor tag.
Instead, we want to use a custom component that's been created by link or something by next JS called
Link.
So at the very top I'm going to import link from next link.
And then right here where I want to display this anchor tag that's going to go back over to my main
landing page.
I'm going to put in link h ref a forward slash.
So that will take me back to my main landing page or essentially my route route.
Then inside of here, we still do have to display an anchor element.
So the link itself is not going to actually create an anchor for us so we can click on.
We have to place the link and then display an anchor link inside.
We'll put in an A with the class name of NAV Bar Grant.
And I'm going to stick with the logo I showed.
So get tix like so.
So after that, I want to show the links over here on the right hand side.
So either sign out or sign in and sign up.
So I'm going to place a div with the class name of DH Dash Flex.
Justify.
Content and.
Inside of there.
I'll show a UL with the class name of nav.
Dash flex.
Align Items Center.
I'll close off the UL.
Inside of here.
We're going to eventually show a couple of different links, either to sign out or sign up and sign
in.
Right now, let's just try to take a look at that current user prop and display some text that says
you are signed in or you are signed out.
We'll eventually then come back and replace it with some different elements to actually display a user
can click on.
So I can take a look at current user.
I'm going to use a Turner expression and I'm going to say if current user is defined, then I want to
show the text of.
Sign out.
Otherwise I'll show the text of sign in.
So again, we'll eventually come back and fix this up.
But right now, good enough to just make sure this thing works.
All right, I'm going to save this file.
I'm then going to make sure this header component actually gets displayed by going back over to my custom
app component.
At the very top.
I'm going to import the header from up one directory components header and then I'll replace the one
we have right here with header.
And of course, we need to make sure that we pass down that property of current user.
They'll say current user is current user.
Okay.
Let's save this.
I'm going to flip back over.
Refresh and now see this header at the very top.
I am currently signed in so the text I see right here says Sign out.
That's exactly what we want.
Now let's test the case in which we are not signed in.
So I'll once again go to that application tab.
I'm going to clear my cookie.
I'm going to refresh.
And now I am not signed in.
And the header reflects the same thing as well.
Perfect.
Well, this is looking pretty good.
Now, all we need to do is make sure.
But rather than having that plain text right there, I want to show an actual collection of links to
allow the user to sign out or sign in or sign up.
A quick pause right here and continue on this in just a moment.